[Home](Home)
# Lab Git Standards

This pages contains the standards that everyone in the lab is expected to follow when using Git and Bitbucket. If you do not know what Git is or how to use it, please start at the [Git page](necessary_skills/Git.md).

**Contents**

[TOC]

## Bitbucket

Our lab hosts all Git repositories on Bitbucket under a workspace named **Utah Telerobotics**. This workspace contains two user groups: **Administrators** and **Developers**. The Administrators group should consist of Jake and one responsible long-term member of the lab at all times. Every member of the lab should belong to the Developers group. Seek out the member of the lab with administrator privileges to be added as a member of the Developers group.

Members of the Developers group have the ability to create repositories belonging to the lab workspace. All code written for research in the lab should be maintained in **private repositories** belonging to the lab workspace (as opposed to each member's personal workspace), thus these repositories will belong to the lab after the member has graduated and has been removed from the workspace. Members of the Developers group also have read access by default to all repositories created in the lab workspace.

Lab workspace members have administrator privileges by default for the repositories they create. They are in charge of allowing others, be they lab workspace members or other Bitbucket users (e.g. members of other labs), to have read and/or write access on a per user basis. Do not remove the administrator privilege of the Administrators group or the read privilege of the Developers group from any repository in the lab workspace. Repositories must belong to an appropriate workspace project. If an appropriate project does not yet exist, contact the lab member with workspace administrator privileges to have one created.

Repositories should be given a descriptive name using lowercase letters and dashes/underscores instead of spaces. Repository names must be unique across the workspace (i.e. the project a repository resides in is simply useful for sorting repositories and does not represent a new namespace of repositories). Make sure to add a good description to the repository.

## Best Practices

- Each repository must have a `README.md` file that give enough information to understand the repository and how to use it.
- Use an appropriate `.gitignore` file to avoid committing unwanted files to the repository (see the *What Not To Commit* section below).
- Avoid committing large files unless there is a good reason (e.g. images for documentation, etc).
- Make smaller commits and push often.
- Use descriptive commit messages
- Set `user.email` to the email address that is associated with your membership in the Utah Telerobotics Bitbucket workspace so your commits can be associated properly on the website.
- Mark important commits (e.g. commits that correspond to the state of the code for
  a journal or conference publication) using a Git tag.
- If a repository depends on another repository, tag the commit of the dependee
  repository with the same tag name. This means you must make sure that the tag
  is not already used in the dependee repository before you use it in the dependent
  repository.
- Tags and branches should be documented in the `README.md` for the repository.

## What Not To Commit

>**IMPORTANT: Always review your staged files for files you did not create or did not intend to stage before committing. If you are unsure of the purpose of a file, it likely should not be committed to the repository.** 

There are many files created by various sources (IDEs, operating systems, compilation, caching, program output and data collection, etc) that **should not be committed to a repository**. It is very important to correctly use `.gitignore` files to prevent unwanted files from accidentally being committed. The [gitignore][1] GitHub repository is a great resource with `.gitignore` templates for just about any project and language. Please use these as a starting point for your own `.gitignore` files.

Below is a list of things to avoid committing to you repositories. **This list is not exhaustive**. 

### General Items

- Large media files (e.g. images, videos)
    - The exception to this is media meant for documentation purposes such as images embedded in the repository's `README.md`. Images and video that was generated by a program and is considered data collected for the project should not be committed to the repository.
- Data files produced/collected by the programs in the repository (i.e. program output)
- Temporary files created by the operating system
    - Files that start with `~` on Linux

### C/C++ Projects (and Qt Creator)

- Files generated by the build system
    - Object Files - `.o`, `.obj`, `.slo`, `.lo`
    - Static Library Files - `.a`, `.lib`, `.lai`, `.la`
    - Dynamic Library Files - `.so`, `.dll`, `.dylib`
    - Executable Files - `.exe`, `.out`, `.app`
        - Note that on Linux executables do not have a file extension
- Files generated for user settings by an IDE
    - `.user` files (e.g. `CMakeLists.txt.user`)
    - See the `Qt.gitignore` on the [gitignore][1] GitHub repository
- Files in the CMake build directory
    -  See the `CMake.gitignore` on the [gitignore][1] GitHub repository

### Python

- Virtual environment directories
    - `.env`
    - `.venv`
    - `.virtualenv`
- The Python cache directory `__pycache__`

[1]: https://github.com/github/gitignore
